 Welcome to the Y cast. I am Nancy. I'm Chantal. And I'm Matt. And we are the hosts of the only
 podcast about a hacker camp in the world. This volunteer run event will take place next year
 in the Netherlands, 42 kilometers above Amsterdam from August 8 to 12, 2025, which is basically next
 year. This is our episode zero. And here's something of the things that you what you can
 expect from us. So first, a short introduction of who we are. So ladies, first, I will start
 with Chantal. Chantal, can you tell me something about yourself and what you are doing for Y?
 Sure, I'm Chantal Stakenberg. And in my daily life, I am head of hackers at a
 company. And for Y, I am actually the team lead for Team Info. And I'm a co team lead
 at Team Content. And I also try to help other teams get set up and get some volunteers there.
 Perfect. All right.
 My name is Ad.
 And by day I'm an I'm an OT nerd and
 And by night, I help Chantal with team info and also with this podcast.
 Woohoo!
 So we have a Ycast.
 My name is Nancy.
 I'm co-chair of IFCOT.
 And that's the organization that is the legal entity for making sure every four years a Dutch hacker camp is happening.
 And I'm also in project lighting, which is the team of volunteers that is taking care of the fact that all the teams can do their work.
 So the plan with this podcast is Friday will be Y day.
 So every Friday, we will release a 30-minute episode about Y 2025.
 So I think it's a good thing.
 Chantal, can you tell a little bit about...
 What Y is?
 Yeah, so Y is one of the successors of many other hacker camps in the Netherlands.
 And it's a fully volunteer-run event.
 And it's actually organized by 42 teams.
 Which is not a coincidence.
 No, of course not.
 We can't have any more teams.
 And all the teams that are here now must exist.
 Because otherwise, we don't have...
 We don't have 42 teams anymore.
 But the camp itself, we're going to look into the future to 2025.
 It's going to be in the outside.
 It's an actual camp.
 So people are staying there in tents, sleeping on the grounds.
 But there are also tents for workshops, but also for talks.
 And there's also all kinds...
 There are all kinds of other tents with fun things to do.
 And a lot of those things are related to hackers, but also makers and all kinds of other stuff.
 So you can play games, but you can also do a CTF, which is also a game, of course.
 But you can also maybe make something or hack a...
 I don't know what kind of stuff people bring to...
 Hardware stuff, car tents that are driving.
 I've seen drones built into ostriches.
 Yeah, and last time there was also like an emu on a lawnmower, like a robotic lawnmower.
 That was in my camp.
 Which is fitting for an outdoor camp event like this time.
 Why?
 This is the 10th in a row.
 Woohoo!
 Yeah, so this is...
 Quite a special milestone, I would say.
 It has always been on camping grounds, I think.
 Yeah.
 Well, one time it was at University Twente, but I think it was also an outside camp.
 Yeah.
 And that also adds to the whole ambience of being outside, being camping, being a holiday and not a conference,
 like all dressed up in suits and being inside.
 And being posh about it.
 This is just about having fun and sharing knowledge and learning things and doing things.
 While having enough uplink in your tent.
 Yes.
 Of course, of course.
 I'm not sure how they are going to do this this year for MCH 2022, which the numbers are odd.
 We'll get into that in a future episode, why that was.
 But for MCH, there was two...
 200 gigabit uplink, redundant uplink to the internet, and you could get 10 gigs in your tent.
 Wow.
 Wow.
 Where can you get that?
 I mean, where can you get that?
 I can't get that at home.
 At a hacker camp.
 Yeah.
 Yep.
 At a hacker camp, you can.
 Yeah.
 And it's also family friendly, because there's also a family zone.
 So if you are scared of the fact that you think, oh, but I have to...
 I have to go on holidays with my family, bring your kids, bring your whole family.
 It's completely fine.
 Bring your husband.
 You can take anyone.
 It's perfectly fine to bring the whole family.
 There will be loads of things going on.
 Last couple of editions was actually great fun for kids as well.
 Yeah.
 And it is always, of course, summertime.
 So usually it is in the Netherlands, but usually the weather is pretty nice.
 And we are outside.
 Right.
 So...
 You can do all kinds of stuff.
 You don't have to do all the plant activities that are there.
 But it's also much fun, because people decorate their camps, but also the entire camp.
 So there's...
 Lasers, LED lights.
 Yeah.
 So there's also enough to see without actually sitting in a tent all day and listening to
 talks or something.
 And you can do hands-on stuff.
 You can walk around.
 And there's also bars and a food court.
 So you can also socialize with a lot of people.
 Absolutely.
 And like-minded people, I might add.
 Yeah.
 I also think...
 We will put in the show notes a link to the after-movie of last time, the MCH 2022, where
 those are drone footages.
 And of course, where you can get a very cool overview on what the camp looked like that
 edition.
 Of course, we will try to top that since it's the 10th time that we are organizing this
 HackerCamp in the Netherlands.
 I mean, the first time I was barely born since it's every four years, and I think it's the
 same for you guys, right?
 Yeah.
 I don't think I was born.
 I existed.
 But...
 Yeah.
 Same.
 Same.
 I'm not talking yet.
 So...
 The drone footages, maybe good to mention that the terrain this year is not the same
 terrain as MCH 2022.
 It's a different terrain.
 True.
 So it's going to look a little bit different probably, but it's still the same
 vibe.
 And we're going to make it as pretty or maybe even more prettier than it was at MCH 2022.
 And maybe we can also...
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 We can also maybe explain a little bit like for who is this HackerCamp actually?
 I think it's for everyone who has either already a hacker mindset, anyone who is curious about
 what hackers do and what they make, because there's also a giant maker community.
 I mean, the number of 3D printers...
 Actually, at the camp.
 Yeah.
 On a field was pretty damn cool.
 There's badges with electronic gadgets that you get at a bunch of these conferences and
 camps.
 And there were already people designing 3D printable cases for them.
 And those cases were also printed onsite by people who brought their 3D printer and said,
 oh, sure.
 I'll print one for you.
 No problem.
 And cool things like that.
 So it's all sharing and learning.
 Yeah.
 But also things about food hacking.
 There also has been a food hacking basis.
 So new ways of cooking or preparing food.
 Yeah.
 It's not only hacking.
 I have done a beer brewing workshop the very first time at Hacking at Random when I was
 there.
 I did that at OpenBSD Village.
 Never done that before, but also making jewelry.
 So there's a lot of very...
 Art.
 ...different things.
 Art.
 Absolutely.
 And yeah, it's not just behind your laptop hacking.
 No.
 And hacking is also...
 And there's definitely not.
 No.
 And hacking is not only behind the laptop.
 It's also using stuff in ways the original designer didn't intend to, but it works.
 And art is one of the forms where you can really see how you can use materials in completely
 new ways.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 And I think that's a way of hacking.
 Maybe.
 Which involves a lot of creativity.
 Yeah.
 And how many people do we expect at Y2025?
 Well, I checked the numbers.
 At MCH, there were approximately 3,200 people.
 So we aim at between 3,000 and 3,500.
 35.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 So my personal, not very sneaky goal would be 42, 42, but that's way bigger.
 Bring your friends.
 Bring your friends.
 No.
 But approximately 3,500 people.
 Yeah.
 So that's a lot of hackers.
 It is.
 But it also, it doesn't feel that big.
 Nope.
 It feels cozy.
 It feels cozy.
 Yes.
 Yeah, because we have all the villages.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 So we have all the villages.
 Yeah.
 You can start your own village and say, hey, I'm very much into open source software
 type X, Y, Z. I want to have a village with people that I know from my open source community
 from that software.
 So we start a village, but we also have seen people from government organizations who wanted
 to stick together, CISOs or other people working on ethical things.
 Yeah.
 So, and of course we have the country villages as well.
 So we have the Italian embassy and the Belgian embassy.
 And so you can, if you come from a certain, because it's an international festival, if
 you come from a certain country, you can also join the village of your country or create
 one.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 If you want to get loud, go to Gravel.
 Yeah.
 That's a, that's a, that's a promise.
 No, but there are a lot of different variations.
 Yeah.
 So if you just want to go to a silent camping, which we also provide, of course, if you don't
 want crazy parties all night long, that's also fine.
 We have a silent spot as well where you can get some good nights to rest.
 Yeah.
 And of course the family village.
 Absolutely.
 Yeah.
 Okay.
 Guaranteed to be family friendly.
 Family friendly.
 Yes.
 And so why are we actually doing this podcast?
 Because it hasn't been done yet.
 Yeah.
 That's a good reason.
 We had the, the Dutch Hacker Camp didn't have a podcast yet.
 I think we have a lot of information to share.
 And of course we have a mailing list.
 We have a Wiki.
 We will, we will share all those links in the show notes as well.
 Soon we will have a website.
 So there's a lot of information online, but we thought, well, podcasts is, is, are, are
 quite popular now.
 And it's very nice to get a half an hour update every week on podcasts.
 So we're going to invite team leads on where the teams are, get some updates from team
 leads.
 So we're going to invite team leads to the podcast as well.
 And well, basically because we can.
 Yeah, definitely.
 Which is, which is a reason enough because we can.
 Yeah.
 Yep.
 Yeah.
 So we, we plan to interview the team leads from the 42 teams and we're going to ask them
 about their current projects.
 Maybe if they need some help or if they need some more volunteers.
 And that kind of stuff, but maybe we should also explain like, what are those teams actually?
 What did they do?
 They do.
 Well, it can differ from very technical stuff, like making sure that that there is a power,
 one of the very basic and very useful teams and the internet and the internet.
 We have a team called nuts, which is the Dutch word for everything.
 Water, electric and things like that.
 You can find an explanation on the wiki, what nuts means.
 But also there's a team for Dago.
 There's also a team for cohesion.
 So if, if anything is going on at the event, that is not so nice.
 People can talk to cohesion or team duct tape, like they like to be called for nowadays.
 But of course we also need someone for creating the websites and we need people for the shuttle
 to make sure people can get there.
 If they come by a public transport transport from the train station to the train.
 So there are loads of, of different things that you can do in the teams.
 Yeah.
 And these teams are all volunteers, right?
 Everybody is volunteering.
 Yeah.
 Nobody is getting paid.
 The only ones getting paid are some security people because we are obliged by the municipality
 where we are based.
 We have to have some professional security.
 So.
 Sometimes we do hire people to get shit done.
 But the rest of the organization is all volunteer based, which is crazy fun.
 Actually, it's even better from my perspective, when you visit a camp, you immediately become
 a volunteer.
 That's called an angel because at the camp itself, a lot of work has to be done as well.
 Speakers have to be introduced in tents.
 They were called, they're called heralds.
 So you can grab a chance to work on your stage presence and try it.
 Give it a try and, and introduce someone, a big speaker maybe.
 All the talks need to be recorded.
 All the talks need to be recorded.
 So we need people for, for the video and for the, for the sound.
 Waste needs to be picked up, toilet rolls needs to be changed out.
 Toilet cleaning is being paid for, by the way.
 Oh.
 Yeah.
 Okay.
 Cool.
 So we don't let our volunteers clean toilets.
 Don't worry about that.
 That used to be way, way back.
 That used to be a volunteer role for, for visitors.
 We got rid of that.
 Fortunately.
 No, but yes.
 Volunteer kitchen needs, needs people to make the food and also do the dishes.
 There's quite a substantial parking lot and there's people there to guide everyone to
 to, to their places and make sure that the vehicles are looked at.
 I'm curious if there's going to be VIP parking again.
 Hopefully there will be VIP parking again.
 Yeah.
 But if you're really curious, so there's no task that you can think of that, that isn't
 available.
 So please go to the Wiki and click on the link of volunteers and you will find all the
 information on how you can join in on the volunteers.
 On how you can join in on the fun.
 Yeah.
 So when you're on the field, go to heaven.
 We have a heaven for our angels who are our volunteers at the field and they will help
 you out on what type of tasks you can do.
 Yeah.
 And we'll dive in deeper when we get to, to the team of the volunteers and have the
 team.
 Yeah.
 Yeah, no, definitely.
 But, but maybe to make absolutely clear, like, so there's, there's volunteer teams that
 are working on the, the, the, the camp right now to, to.
 Yeah.
 The, the pre stages before the camp to, to make sure that everything is going to work.
 And then during the, the camp, you can, you can also volunteer and, and, and a lot of
 just visitors just pick up a little task, maybe do something an hour or two, and then
 you help every everyone out.
 So that's, that's really cool.
 And it's a nice way to meet new people as well on a, on a very easy way.
 Yeah, definitely.
 Yeah.
 Definitely.
 That's what I experienced last time.
 It was my first hacker camp.
 And I got to meet so many people by just.
 Well, yeah.
 Standing somewhere and giving, giving people stuff and then just volunteering this.
 I just did a couple of hours, but I've met so many people.
 Perfect for me.
 It was a way to, to make sure that certain talks I, I did see, I did audio.
 That's a good strategy.
 Yeah.
 anyways so why not push the button to record this uh this presentation yeah exactly yeah because
 since i think 2001 all the presentations from all the hacker camps are recorded and uh you can still
 view them back you can still uh you can still watch them so that's amazing that's very cool
 definitely so um are there any other plans that we have with this podcast
 yeah i think uh we are going to discuss the the new and exciting topics like presentations we
 look forward to like team content and maybe have some input for that but also i think we're
 definitely gonna tell you all about the amazing plans from the the hacker community for the camp
 and um yeah the updates are definitely uh one of the the main topics i think in this podcast
 yeah
 and we're definitely also going to uh share some vacancies because we always need volunteers
 um and uh yeah and all the ways that you can actually help uh organizing uh why 2025.
 yeah and there's there's for the for the organization there's there's online meetings
 um regularly scheduled but there's also sometimes uh in person meetings with the with the organ
 and
 uh those will be announced on here and uh hopefully we get some some footage during those events and
 also share that with uh with all you out there um we'll discuss other camps around the world
 happening uh as well because i think most people that come to one camp will also visit more and uh
 uh it's it's it's an international group of friends in in most cases and you know that's i think soskin
 cases. So yeah, more better. Yep. Yeah. And a little history lesson about the past additions
 and look forward to this 10th edition.
 Very cool. Yeah. So this was our episode zero, I guess. It's a bit rough around the
 edges. Maybe it's a bit new. It's a bit unpolished, but that's the way we roll because we can.
 It is called Why? Because we're curious and we want to know more. And it's also a question
 in itself. So I would like to leave you with some questions. For future episodes, we would
 love some extra jingles. So for instance, for the history lessons, it would to give
 some cool facts about former camps, we would love to have a nice jingle. We're not that
 happy.
 So if anyone is listening and able to make a jingle with the proper license, and please
 let it be legal. So we're not we're not running into troubles when we when we put it in the
 podcast, but in the white cast. But yeah, I think it's an amazing medium to to share
 with you all. And I'm really looking forward to future episodes.
 Yes.
 Thanks for listening. And see you next week.
