 Hi, and welcome to the YCast Episode 1.
 Hi, I'm Nancy.
 Hi, Mats.
 And we are the hosts of the only podcast about a hacker camp in the world.
 This volunteer run event will take place next year in the Netherlands,
 42 kilometers above Amsterdam, from August 8th to 12th, 12th, 2025.
 So, Ats, what are we talking about today?
 Well, there's a couple of things we will be discussing.
 And one of the things I want to touch on first is what happened about two weeks ago.
 In Eindhoven, at Hackalot, we had Fallfest,
 the most recent in-person organ meet for the event.
 Yes.
 And we were there together.
 Yes.
 Together with about 70 other people.
 Which was a lot.
 It was a lot.
 But it was great, I think.
 So, first of all, you have to imagine that we have 42 teams.
 And not even everyone was there present at this meetup.
 So, there's even more people.
 There's even more people working behind the scenes, getting this event up and running.
 But having 70 people in one room, who all have the same goal,
 making this an awesome event, is very productive, I could say.
 Oh, yes.
 There has been done more during those few hours in there than there has been in the weeks prior, I think.
 Which is awesome.
 And what did you...
 What were your highlights?
 Well, I'm all up for remote first.
 But, yeah, just seeing and meeting each other and have leaders and leaders of Club Mata going on there.
 First, thanks to Hackalot for hosting us.
 The fun fact is they just recently had a new space.
 So, they're based in a church now, which helps a lot when you want to have 70 people of a community in one space.
 I think Kristel, my co-chair of IFCOT, did a great job in opening everything and welcoming everything.
 Because, yeah, without everybody volunteering, this event is not happening.
 And all the things we spoke about and all the teams who were getting together,
 and whether it was about the food court or the permits or the family zone or the NUTS, Team NUTS, you can look it up on the wiki.
 What that means, I think it was great.
 And also, we did a lot of interviews for the WIcast.
 That too, that too.
 Yeah, we got a lot of content already from there, which is also pretty cool.
 Thanks, Stitch, for using your office for it.
 Because we had a nice cyber museum background there.
 So, that was cool.
 And...
 Yeah, I think the overall vibe was very enthusiastic and looking forward to everything.
 Team Terrain did a really great job in presenting the terrain and all the...
 Well, some of the bumps that we also have to take into account.
 But all in all, I think it was a great meet and I saw a lot of positive vibes all over the place.
 So, yeah, I'm very, very excited about it.
 Yep.
 Especially because it's 11.
 11 months prior to the event, right?
 That so many people already are active and involved in making this happen.
 That's so cool.
 Yep. Yep.
 And also the terrain talk.
 I mean, having terrains designated as the desert, the Badlands and the Boneyard.
 I mean, yep.
 Yep. Yep.
 Very interesting.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 And we had the bit of Huisdel
 shown there.
 Look at the banner, look at the banner.
 If you're listening to this podcast, please check out the YouTube because on screen currently is the banner for the event.
 Yeah.
 And Team Volunteers also made some very lovely posters, which is over there, but that's not quite clear.
 But I think you can download them at the Wiki as well.
 Oh, okay.
 This is not working out, which is fine.
 This is fine.
 This is fine.
 It says volunteers needed and they've been passed along to all the hackerspaces.
 So the posters are everywhere on the hackerspaces.
 And we had loads and loads and loads of stickers.
 So if you need stickers, want stickers, go to hackerspaces.
 I will show them in front of the camera in all kinds of different colors and you can stick them anywhere.
 Yep.
 Legal.
 Yes.
 So the poster says,
 volunteers needed.
 If you go to the Wiki, there's a vacancies position there, a page that lists a lot of the vacancies still open.
 Yeah.
 Link will be in the show notes.
 But you mentioned you had a couple of interviews at Volfest.
 And I know that one of them was with Dani from Team Content.
 And Content is obviously quite important for an event like this.
 Because part of the conference is just being there and see friends, but also going to lectures.
 Yeah.
 And we have every event.
 We have at least 200 talks and workshops.
 And one of the highlights, because there were a lot of highlights, but one of the highlights of
 Volfest was that the CFP is open.
 Yes.
 So now you have the possibility if you want.
 If you want to be share cool knowledge on a stage, you can sign up and they also need reviewers, by the way, which Dani will also talk about.
 But yeah, the CFP is open.
 So if you have a cool subject, the thing you want to talk about or anything, you can head over to the CFP page and yeah, sign up your talk.
 Links will be in the show notes wherever they are on your favorite podcast app.
 Or down there in the YouTubes.
 Yeah.
 Well, maybe now it's time to listen to Dani, I guess.
 Yes.
 Perfect.
 So we're here still at the Volfest in September.
 We don't know when this will be in the episode, but we're here with Dani.
 So can you please tell us some more about yourself and the team?
 Yes.
 Okay.
 Hi, I am Dani.
 That's the short form of Daniëlle.
 But umlauts in names still go wrong.
 I'm in systems.
 So it went on to Dani.
 I am in team content.
 So we are working on the CFP and making sure that we have some nice speakers on the event.
 I've heard a lot of people ask me, what does CFP stand for?
 What does it mean?
 It's a call for papers or call for proposals or call for presenters.
 Basically, if you want to talk at Y,
 you're going to send in a
 proposal or call for proposals.
 Which one?
 I want to talk about this subject or this subject.
 And this is my idea.
 Very cool.
 And do you already have an idea of what type of content we are looking for for Y?
 Yes.
 Okay.
 We have for Y, we want, of course, talks that connect to our event, connect to our scene.
 So we have four streams of topics.
 We have wonderful creations.
 Everything that you have created from scratch.
 And that can be art.
 It can be software.
 It can be hardware.
 It can be anything that is somewhat related.
 Cookies.
 Cookies.
 If you have the greatest cookie recipe.
 We have the altfluencer here as well.
 Cookies is fine, too.
 If you are doing something with what somebody else did.
 And then we have hacking.
 Hacking is for everything that is, I fixed it.
 I broke it.
 I broke it by fixing it.
 I fixed it by breaking it.
 Or just doing something about hacking is.
 Again, software, hardware, humanware, whatever.
 Then we have yearn for a better future.
 And that is all about building a better world by political talks, self-improvement,
 environmental stuff.
 Things like that.
 Things that will improve the world or people.
 If you say, well, those are three things.
 I'm not really sure what it is.
 We also have.
 The square hole.
 Because everything fits into the square hole.
 Very good.
 So those are the four mainstreams of content that we want.
 There's going to be a longer description on the website.
 Of course, if you go to the CFP site, you see a bit longer description already.
 And we're working on like a long format blog post about what the entire idea and philosophy is.
 And the CFP is live as of today.
 CFP is live as of the fallfest today at cfp.y2020.com.
 And you can send in your proposals until towel day.
 And that is 25th of May 2025.
 So that's a very long time.
 Yeah.
 You've got a lot of time, but please, please, please don't wait until May next year to send
 in your proposals because we have to read through them.
 And I've just done it for other conference.
 It's a lot of work to read all that stuff.
 Yes.
 And why is completely organized and by volunteers.
 So these are actual people who.
 Who give up their free time to go through all the proposals.
 So please be nice and be early.
 Yeah.
 And be complete.
 And if you have any questions, you can also email email us at content at y2035.org.
 If you have any questions, you need some help.
 You don't know how to do the CFP form.
 We're here to help as well.
 Very cool.
 Does your esteem content also in need of more volunteers?
 At the moment, we are good.
 Okay.
 Going on to the event, we're going to need some more reviewer people that's going to
 review all the CFPs and rate them.
 It's like, I want to see this.
 I'm not really want to see this.
 And of course we also have sub teams for the speaker desk and stuff like that for on the
 event itself.
 We have, we can still have some people that will want to help on the event.
 Yeah.
 And also in.
 Former events.
 I have been a Herald.
 That's also a part of your team, right?
 Herald is also one of our bits.
 Herald is people who.
 Hear ye, hear ye.
 Who announce speakers.
 Yeah.
 So that's great fun.
 And it might be also nice, but that's something for, for later next year.
 So if you want to be a Herald, get in touch with team content, find ourselves on the,
 on the wiki or find ourselves an email.
 We also arrange that as a sub team.
 Yeah.
 Very nice.
 Anything else that we forgot to mention that?
 Yeah.
 You want to add or.
 Go look at our CFP page because there are some special stuff that we're hoping to get around.
 That is alluded into the CFP.
 If you read that, you will find it.
 And we're still working out the details if we can make this happen, but it's going to be awesome.
 Awesome.
 Thank you so much.
 You're very welcome.
 And go for it.
 Okay.
 So that was the amazing interview with Dani and we have more in store for you this episode.
 Uh, like.
 For instance, we have a history lesson about something cool happening at a former camp
 by the Adfluencer.
 And what else, Ad?
 There's also an interview with Dave Borghuis from Hackfest.
 That is something where you can hack Sue.
 But I think we'll start off with the, with the history lesson.
 Yes.
 Tell us some more about the history, Ad.
 Okay.
 Each episode, we'll be diving into a piece of history.
 Something special from the predecessors of Y2025.
 So that could be from the Galactic Hacker Party from 1989.
 Hackers at the End of the Universe from 93.
 Hacking in Progress, 97.
 Hackers at Large, 2001.
 What the Hack, 2005.
 Hacking at Random, 2009.
 Observe Hack Make, 2013.
 Still Hacking Anyways, 2017.
 May Contain Hackers from 2021.
 No.
 Mac COVID happened, so that became May Contain Hackers 2022.
 And this week we will be taking a look at...
 The Stone Age Computer.
 On display at Hacking at the End of the Universe in 1993,
 an interactive art installation made by Mathilde Muppet,
 or microprocessor as it is stylized.
 It has been on display on several locations in 1993,
 dressed up differently each time,
 which ties in with the organic feel of this artwork.
 It was meant as a piece to bring people back from the kilos of manuals
 that were involved with...
 Using computers.
 Back to nature.
 It is designed like a Japanese garden.
 And as we read on her website from 1993, and I quote,
 Get into the primitive mode.
 Hit the Stone Age keyboard where rocks represent the keys.
 Squeeze the water sacks dangling along the keyboard,
 representing the simultaneous keys, Alt Shift and Control.
 Get the feeling how you push your data through the computer.
 End quote.
 So, I guess you have to squeeze the water sacks
 and mash the Z key when you do something wrong.
 And you should also not forget to water the keyboard
 as it is laid in actual soil with living plants and moss and everything.
 According to the stories that I've heard,
 this is the event where the computer actually got hooked up
 to one of the eight phone lines that was available at the camp.
 So it could have...
 Closed-court, 8 games per night.
 actual dial-up connection to the rest of the world.
 And for the people watching on YouTube,
 there will be some pictures flashing on screen from Matilda's website.
 The link will be in the show notes.
 And it is also featured on the cover of a book about data communications.
 This wasn't the last time that Matilda would show up
 with an interactive art piece.
 And that might be something for a future episode.
 So let's look at one of the vacancies of the week.
 We have a team that is called Volunteering.
 And this is kind of a meta thing we are having at our hands here.
 You mean that team Volunteers is looking for volunteers
 to look for volunteers?
 Yes, that is what I mean.
 So we need volunteers to look for volunteers to have more volunteers
 because we can never have enough volunteers.
 Volunteers.
 Yeah, and it's not only...
 During this organizational phase, it's also during the event
 because there's the whole angel system with volunteering
 during the event with simple tasks, but very necessary tasks.
 And we also need people for the volunteer kitchen.
 Yes.
 Because if you do participate in the angel system
 and you do actually volunteer for a couple of hours on a day,
 you get a meal.
 Yeah, absolutely.
 And it's also about making sure everybody stays hydrated.
 It's about all kinds of different things at the event itself.
 But prior to the event, it's also talking to other teams.
 Do you still have vacancies?
 Do you need help?
 Do we need people to help out with the finance team,
 the fire team, the shuttle team?
 Do we need more shuttle drivers?
 You can also become a shuttle driver
 to take people from the station to the event and back again.
 So, yeah, volunteers is a very important team
 for finding volunteers to help volunteers.
 Yes, so check them out on the wiki
 or send them an email at volunteers at y2025.org.
 Yes.
 Each week, we will share where you can find
 why-minded people, where to hack.
 So here with me today is Dave.
 And Dave is going to tell us a little bit
 on where we can hack soon
 because you're organizing an amazing event
 and happy to have you on the YCast
 to tell a little bit more about it.
 So maybe you can introduce yourself.
 Maybe also what you're doing organizing hacks.
 And maybe also a little bit about
 what you intend to do for Y.
 So, yeah, my name is Dave Borchuis.
 I am also a volunteer at Y.
 So this year, I can help with the permit party part.
 And I was also a volunteer in previous camps.
 So one camp, I was the lead of the light and audio.
 Another one, I had...
 I had my own village called Ritok Village
 with Commodore 64 and Amiga and stuff like that.
 So I was already quite busy with, yeah,
 all kinds of computer stuff.
 And in 28 and 29 September of this year,
 I'm going to organize the Hackfest.
 And it's going to be in the Drukpershal.
 Drukpershal.
 Yes.
 We will put a link in the show notes.
 But it's a very old building where previously
 the letter, the newspapers were printed.
 Oh, that's awesome.
 Cool.
 Awesome, big space, very high, very industrial.
 So, yeah, that's what I like.
 Very suitable for a Hackfest.
 Yeah, I thought so.
 So it took a little bit of effort to get it all organized.
 But we're going to do the festival itself.
 Okay, so Hackfest is two days.
 It's on a Saturday and a Sunday.
 Yeah, that's right.
 And the Drukpershal is based in?
 Enschede itself.
 In Enschede.
 So, yeah.
 So it's near the German border as well.
 Yeah.
 So...
 Well, all Germans are also welcome to Hackfest.
 Germans are always welcome also.
 Of course, everybody is welcome.
 Yeah.
 And can you tell me a little bit about the content?
 What will happen when I look at the...
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Speakers program, for instance.
 Yeah.
 So I have several parts.
 So it's kind of the traditional Maker Faire.
 And if you don't know what it is,
 that is that a hobbyist has his own projects
 and is going to show and tell a little bit about their project
 and explain what he did
 and maybe explain a little bit about the mistakes he made
 and stuff like that.
 So that's always...
 I find that mostly interesting.
 Sorry.
 And Saturday evening, we also have a part of the demo scene
 because I am also active in there.
 So that's MCA's 2022.
 I organized a bite jam at the camp.
 That was kind of nice.
 And lots of people still don't know what it is.
 So...
 What is it?
 A demo scene?
 Yeah.
 So very short.
 The chart originally started in the old days
 when the computers were new.
 And the software, if someone cracked it,
 they want to put something in front of it,
 like bragging,
 I made this and stuff like that.
 Yeah.
 That became more and more complex.
 So in the end, it was with music
 and real-time graphics and stuff like that.
 Yeah.
 So...
 And after some time, the cracking itself became illegal.
 So...
 People don't want to do that anymore.
 But still want to make the demos,
 still want to make the music, the effects and stuff like that.
 And that became, in the end, the demo scene.
 And even nowadays, there were still people that make demos
 for the Commodore 64 or the Amiga or all kind of other old platforms.
 Yeah, it's crazy creative and cool.
 Yeah, it's really much so much fun.
 Yeah.
 And especially...
 What I like, they also have categories called 4K and 4K,
 not in resolution, but as the size of the executable.
 Uh-huh.
 Of 4,000 bytes.
 And if you see what they make with 4,000 bytes,
 it's crazy amazing.
 So that's going to be Saturday evening.
 So we're going to show a little bit of the history of the demo scene.
 Then we're going to have a live coding part with Tech 80.
 And then after that, there's a DJ who makes a little bit of music.
 Okay.
 So a really awesome party on Saturday night as well.
 Yeah.
 And yeah, during the day, the exposition is there and the speakers.
 And one of the speakers, Mitch Altman, he's going to expand a little bit
 about Hackerspace and why it's important.
 But we also...
 Because you are also linked to Hackerspace, right?
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 So I'm also the founder of the Hackerspace in Enschede, called the Tuckernub.
 Do you sleep as well?
 Sometimes.
 Sometimes.
 Sometimes.
 So you're also the founder of Tuckernub, which we will also put in the show notes.
 Of course.
 Very cool.
 Cool, cool.
 And yeah, and I also try to promote Hackerspaces in general.
 So I'm also kind of the maintainer of the Hackerspaces.nl site in the Netherlands.
 Very nice.
 And map at mapspace.
 No, mapall.space.
 Oh, terrible.
 Oh, you know what I mean?
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 You can see all the spaces that are currently open and including the Fab Labs and stuff
 like that.
 So yeah, I do a little bit more than that.
 And I still sleep.
 And you still sleep.
 Yeah.
 And speakers.
 Yeah, we have Mitch.
 We have some MQTT talks.
 We have also workshops.
 Like, yeah, Mitch is there.
 So we have the soldering workshops then.
 That makes sense.
 Yeah.
 Yeah, it's kind of always to come together.
 Some guys of the lockpicking village that's normally in the hacker camps is also there.
 Nice.
 Yeah.
 And then we have to how to make your own digital ID.
 So and the last part we're going to have is kind of hacker launch.
 So that's kind of what you see at Congress.
 So you can sit down there with your laptop and yeah, hack around and be social or not
 social, whatever you want.
 Yeah, be yourself with your people.
 Yeah, bring projects, small projects if you want to.
 So that's kind of the whole part of the both days and the demo scene part.
 That's only Saturday evening and we're going to repeat the history part on Sunday.
 But there's no live coding on Sunday.
 So yeah, that's kind of the program.
 Yeah.
 It's also on our website.
 So if this all goes too fast, just read it.
 Yeah, right.
 And important question.
 Are there still tickets left?
 Sure.
 There are tickets left.
 Yeah.
 And if you are if you come in full cosplay, you can get free entrance.
 Ooh, that's a nice excuse to dress up again.
 So I'm all for for dressing up.
 I already told you I was I have my crown here for the queen of hearts.
 So this will.
 Not be enough for a cosplay, right?
 No, no, you have to do a little bit more than that.
 You have to.
 Yeah, we will.
 We will do the full, full costume.
 We will put the full costume in.
 But so if you if you like to dress up, you can and dress up and get free entrance.
 That's like that's like a double bonus.
 Yeah.
 Also, very cool.
 You told me if you would dress up, it would probably be steampunk style, right?
 Yeah.
 But but to be honest, I find very amazing that people do that.
 But I'm not that creative.
 So I have other qualities.
 They say they're organizing crazy cool events, for instance.
 Yeah. Yeah.
 So is there anything else you want to add or I want to highlight or.
 The computer museum is also coming.
 So that's kind of nice.
 Best team is coming.
 So also part of the camp.
 They also make the batches for the coming white cap.
 So, yes, very cool.
 Yeah, but and I also have some people that make music.
 So there's some 3D printed instruments.
 Oh, the guy who makes instruments with the laser cutter.
 So this is all kind of accidental stuff.
 Demi also for from the laser lights and stuff like that.
 So if you see this.
 Laser light at any party in the Netherlands, the chance is high
 that Dimitri is involved somehow.
 Yeah, yeah, yeah.
 We're probably going to have him on the show somewhere.
 Yeah, he has some crazy cool plants with loads of fire for a while as well.
 Yeah, yeah.
 We're doing the permits, so we have to make sure he can do his thing.
 Well, we have to say, say, Demi, nice idea, but no.
 Well, let's try to make it happen because that would be awesome.
 Yeah, very cool.
 And for the rest, it's all about hardware, software or kind of open source technical.
 Also a little bit introduction for the people who are not very familiar with it.
 So yeah, enough to do for everyone.
 So sounds cool.
 Great.
 Well, Dave, thank you so much for telling us more.
 Anyone who does listen.
 If you have.
 If you have time, please go to answer today.
 Go to Hackfest because it sounds like you have a very cool program there
 for for anyone who is interested in the in the community.
 So thank you so much.
 Yeah, thank you.
 So those are some some cool stories by Dave.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 See you at Hackfest.
 So I'll be there.
 I'll be on stage actually.
 So you can interview people who don't like us as well there.
 Perhaps, perhaps.
 Oh, I mean, I'll be there both days.
 So if you have something to ask or to share, please come up to me.
 And if you have feedback on our podcast, send us an email.
 Ycast at Y2025.org.
 And we want to thank Bix for giving our giving us our intro music.
 Yeah, thanks, Bix.
 Yeah, that's awesome.
 If you want more information about the event, the different teams
 or this podcast, look at our wiki.
 You can find that on Y2025.org.
 And you can also mail either Nancy or
 the podcast itself.
 You can send an email to Ycast at Y2025.org with any cool stories, hacker events
 and also send historical facts with us so we can have more cool.
 Cool things in the episode with the Adfluencer.
 Yeah.
 Thank you so much for listening indeed.
 And see you next week, Ad.
 See you next week.
 See you next week.
